---
categories: experiment
tags: PairTesting
layout: post
published: true
title: Experimenting Pair Testing with SME
---
Experimenting Pair Testing with SME

# Why Pair Testing Experimentation
Last week, I've been assigned a production change to retest after the change was deployed to the test environment.

I found myself had lost after reading the ticket and comments. It seems to me the summary describes one thing, description says something else. Moreover, it seems there are a few options had been proposed through the comments and various attached email trails. I was really confused about what were the changes and what are expected behaviours etc. I found I had more questions than I can think of what to test. I was really worried about that I'll miss something important or set up the test data or condition wrong because of lack of understanding of the changes and expected behaviours. It didn't change much after I talked to the SME responsible for the area.

Just then, I thought why not try an pair testing session for this change with the SME. So I can learn more about the business scenarios, data setup in another part of the system. In the meantime, I can show her what I'm doing with the SOAPUI. Potentially, teach her to use SOAPUI to run some basic checks if she needs some quick answers in the future. I've scheduled a session on Monday to experiment with the SME in the current project for the first time.

# Context of Current Project
The current process:
1. SME talked with developer about the changes and defects raised from production first. 
2. Developer does his magic and then throw his masterpiece onto me, with his magical phase "here you go, deployed and ready for testing!"
3. I then study hard about the change by reading through the tickets and comments. Most likely I'll also be reading all attached emails where important information may be captured.
4. I may have lots more questions after studying about the ticket. I reach out to SME and developers to get further clarifications.

Normally, this works out "well" after some back and forth clarifications. Not this time though.

# The Plan
After decided on the experimentation, I thought better to make it a bit fun and useful for both of us. Then, we can experiment this a bit further to include developer as well. You know the 3-amigos for future changes to save a bit of time for everyone. I thought I'll ask the experts I know who's done the pair testing before successfully. 



    <blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I&#39;m thinking of pair testing with a business SME. So she can help with better and more relevant business scenarios, I can contribute the testing mindset and &quot;what if&quot; scenarios.<br><br>Any advices or suggestions to make it effective and enjoyable experiment? <a href="https://twitter.com/lisihocke?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@lisihocke</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/lisacrispin?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@lisacrispin</a></p>&mdash; TestingWithFun (@TestingWithFun) <a href="https://twitter.com/TestingWithFun/status/1169315224840597504?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>






